Add docs for extended parameter protocol (#210)
mavlink/mavlink-devguide: en/services/parameter_ext.md

<span id="PARAM_ACK"></span>[PARAM_ACK](../messages/common.md#PARAM_ACK) | Request acknowledgment status value, sent in an [PARAM_EXT_ACK](#PARAM_EXT_ACK) as a response to a [PARAM_EXT_SET](#PARAM_EXT_SET) message. A request can be accepted, fail, in-progress, or unsupported (indicating the specified parameter does not exist or has an invalid value or value type).

## Parameter Encoding {#parameter_encoding}

Parameters names/ids are set in the `param_id` field of messages where they are used.
The `param_id` string can store up to 16 characters. 
The string is terminated with a NULL (`\0`) character if there are less than 16 human-readable chars, and without a null termination byte if the length is exactly 16 chars.

> **Note** Names (as above) are the same as for the [Parameter Protocol](../services/parameter.md#parameter_encoding).
  Values (below) are encoded differently.

> Values are byte-wise encoded *within* the `param_value` field, which is a `char[128]`. <!-- how are they encoded? -->

Author: @dogmaphobic 
- How are values encoded in the char[128] (if you see the note below, it used to be a byte-wise conversion into a float for numeric values). 
- Is it just a byte-wise copy into the appropriate sized number of bytes in the message? Any example code to point to? Any "helper functions"?
- What about for strings - how are they represented?

The `param_type` ([MAV_PARAM_EXT_TYPE](#MAV_PARAM_EXT_TYPE)) is used to indicate the actual type of the data so that it can be decoded by the recipient.

> Supported types are: 8, 16, 32 and 64-bit signed and unsigned integers, 32 and 64-bit floating point numbers, and a "custom type" which may used for strings. <!-- why custom? shouldit be string, and then new types added for non string usage of the same field -->

Author: The last type is a "Custom Type". How come we didn't have an explicit string type, allowing further random specialization via a custom type?

Reviewer: The contents of the `char[128]` field is "memcpy" into a union structure:
https://github.com/mavlink/qgroundcontrol/blob/master/src/Camera/QGCCameraIO.h#L18-L34

Here is an example of code that _sends a parameter_ (Sets a value into the `char[128]` field):
https://github.com/mavlink/qgroundcontrol/blob/master/src/Camera/QGCCameraIO.cc#L132

Here is the other end, the code that receives a `char[128]` and takes the appropriate (typed) value off of it:
https://github.com/mavlink/qgroundcontrol/blob/master/src/Camera/QGCCameraIO.cc#L276

<!--  **Note** A byte-wise conversion is needed, rather than a simple cast, to enable larger integers to be exchanged (e.g. 1E7 scaled integers can be useful for encoding some types of data, but lose precision if cast directly to floats).
-->

## Parameter Caching {#parameter_caching}

> 

Author: FYI, this explains the caching approach, but presents it as optional. We know that not every system will want to cache everything (although GCS do tend to).

A GCS or other component may choose to maintain a cache of parameter values for connected components/systems, in order to reduce the time required to display values and reduce MAVLink traffic.

The cache can be populated initially by first [reading the full parameter list](#read_all) at least once, and then updated by monitoring for [PARAM_EXT_ACK](#PARAM_EXT_ACK) messages with `PARAM_ACK_ACCEPTED` (which are emitted whenever a parameter is successfully [written/changed](#write)).

A system may also monitor for [PARAM_EXT_VALUE](#PARAM_EXT_VALUE) originating from other components/systems requesting parameter values. 

> **Note** Cache synchronisation is not guaranteed; a component may [miss parameter update messages](#monitoring_unreliable) due to changes by other components.

<!--

> ## Multi-System and Multi-Component Support

Author: This was from original param docs. I "think" it is not useful to say this for the extended protocol, but let me know if you disagree/agree.

MAVLink supports multiple systems in parallel on the same link, and multiple MAVLink enabled components within a system.

Requests to get and set parameters can be sent to individual systems or components. 
To get a complete parameter list from a system, send the request parameter message with `target_component` set to [MAV_COMP_ID_ALL](../messages/common.md#MAV_COMP_ID_ALL).

All components must respond to parameter request messages addressed to their ID or the ID `MAV_COMP_ID_ALL`. 

> **Tip** *QGroundControl* by default queries all components of the currently connected system (it sends ID `MAV_COMP_ID_ALL`).
-->

<!--

> ### Mavgen C API

Author: There were explicit helpers for working with parameters in the original API, which was documented here (e.g. making it easier to do bytewise copy of types into the messages).  I have commented out, and assume nothing similar available/needed for this protocol?

The C API provides a convenient `union` that allows you to bytewise convert between any of the supported types: `mavlink_param_union_t` ([mavlink_types.h](https://github.com/mavlink/c_library_v2/blob/master/mavlink_types.h)).
For example, below we shown how you can set the union integer field but pass the float value to the sending function: 

```c
mavlink_param_union_t param;
int32_t integer = 20000;
param.param_int32 = integer;
param.type = MAV_PARAM_TYPE_INT32;

// Then send the param by providing the float bytes to the send function
mavlink_msg_param_set_send(xxx, xxx, param.param_float, param.type, xxx);
```

### Mavgen Python API (Pymavlink)

Pymavlink does not include special support to byte-wise encode the non-float data types (unsurprisingly, because Python effectively "hides" low level data types from users).
When working with a system that supports non-float parameters (e.g. PX4) you will need to do the encoding/decoding yourself when sending and receiving messages.

There is a good example of how to do this in the Pymavlink [mavparm.py](https://github.com/ArduPilot/pymavlink/blob/master/mavparm.py) module (see `MAVParmDict.mavset()`).

-->

> ## Limitations {#limitations}

Author: Note, please read these limitations. I believe they are the same as for the original parameters protocol

    participant Drone
    GCS->>Drone: PARAM_EXT_REQUEST_LIST
    GCS-->>GCS: Start receive timeout (any params)
    Drone->>GCS: Broadcast N parameters with PARAM_EXT_VALUE
    GCS-->>GCS: Start receive timeout (after each param)
    Note over GCS: Finish/timeout when no more params received
{% endmermaid %}

The sequence of operations is:

1. GCS (client) sends [PARAM_EXT_REQUEST_LIST](../messages/common.md#PARAM_REQUEST_LIST) specifying a target system/component.
   - Broadcast addresses may be used.
     All targeted components should respond with parameters (or ignore the request if they have none).
   - The GCS is expected to accumulate parameters from all responding systems.
   - The timeout/retry behaviour is GSC dependent.
1. The targeted component(s) should respond, sending all parameters individually in [PARAM_EXT_VALUE](../messages/common.md#PARAM_EXT_VALUE) messages.
   - Allow breaks between each message in order to avoid saturating the link.
   - Components with no parameters should ignore the request.
1. GCS starts timeout after each `PARAM_EXT_VALUE` message in order to detect when parameters are no longer being sent (that the operation has completed).

> The GCS/API may accumulate the received parameters for each component and can determine if any are missing/not received (`PARAM_EXT_VALUE` contains the total number of params and index of current param).

Author: As above, note that caching of the parameters is assumed optional.

**Handling of missing params is GCS-dependent.**
*QGroundControl*, for example, [individually requests](#read_single) each missing parameter by index (using [PARAM_EXT_REQUEST_READ](../messages/common.md#PARAM_EXT_REQUEST_READ)).

### Read Single Parameter {#read_single}

A single parameter can be read by sending the [PARAM_EXT_REQUEST_READ](../messages/common.md#PARAM_EXT_REQUEST_READ) message, as shown below:

{% mermaid %}
sequenceDiagram;
    participant GCS
    participant Drone
    GCS->>Drone: PARAM_EXT_REQUEST_READ
    GCS->>GCS: Start receive timeout
    Drone->>GCS: PARAM_EXT_VALUE
    GCS-->>Drone: Re-request parameter value on timeout
{% endmermaid %}

> 

Author: @dogmaphobic IMO it would have been much nicer to get rid of PARAM_EXT_VALUE and always return a PARAM_EXT_ACK. This would allow a read (for example) to let the caller know that it has requested an invalid parameter. Also consistent handling everywhere.

1. Drone (starts to) write parameter and responds by *broadcasting* a `PARAM_EXT_ACK`.
   - If the write succeeded the `PARAM_EXT_ACK` will contain a result of `PARAM_ACK_ACCEPTED` and the updated parameter value.
   - If the parameter was unknown or of an unsupported type `PARAM_EXT_ACK` will contain a result of `PARAM_ACK_VALUE_UNSUPPORTED` and the current parameter value will be XXXXX.
   - If the write failed for another reason then `PARAM_EXT_ACK` will contain a result of `PARAM_ACK_FAILED` and the current parameter value.
   - If the write operation is long-running the `PARAM_EXT_ACK` will contain a result of `PARAM_ACK_IN_PROGRESS` and the XXXX parameter value.
     In this case the recipient should increase their timeout and way for another `PARAM_EXT_ACK`.
     `PARAM_EXT_ACK` should be resent when the operation completes.
1. GCS should update the [parameter cache](#parameter_caching) (if used) with the new value.
1. The GCS may restart the sequence if an expected `PARAM_EXT_ACK` is not received within the timeout, or if the write operation fails.

<!-- 

> ## Implementations

Author: Can you point me to code that uses this in QGC and elsewhere?

# Extended Parameter Protocol

> The *Extended Parameter Protocol* is an extended version of the [Parameter Protocol](../services/parameter.md) that adds support for large non-float parameter values, including strings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The *Extended Parameter Protocol* is an extended version of the [Parameter Protocol](../services/parameter.md) that adds support for larger custom parameter types e.g. strings.
```

<span id="PARAM_ACK"></span>[PARAM_ACK](../messages/common.md#PARAM_ACK) | Request acknowledgment status value, sent in an [PARAM_EXT_ACK](#PARAM_EXT_ACK) as a response to a [PARAM_EXT_SET](#PARAM_EXT_SET) message. A request can be accepted, fail, in-progress, or unsupported (indicating the specified parameter does not exist or has an invalid value or value type).

## Parameter Encoding {#parameter_encoding}

Parameters names/ids are set in the `param_id` field of messages where they are used.
The `param_id` string can store up to 16 characters.
The string is terminated with a NULL (`\0`) character if there are less than 16 human-readable chars, and without a null termination byte if the length is exactly 16 chars.

> **Note** Names (as above) are the same as for the [Parameter Protocol](../services/parameter.md#parameter_encoding).

Values are byte-wise encoded *within* the `param_value` field, which is a `char[128]`.
The `param_type` ([MAV_PARAM_EXT_TYPE](#MAV_PARAM_EXT_TYPE)) is used to indicate the actual type of the data so that it can be decoded by the recipient.

> Supported types are: 8, 16, 32 and 64-bit signed and unsigned integers, 32 and 64-bit floating point numbers, and a "custom type" which may used for strings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Supported types are: 8, 16, 32 and 64-bit signed and unsigned integers, 32 and 64-bit floating point numbers, and a "custom type" which may used for e.g. strings.
```
